Let me just show you what branching or how branching happens in Git.
For that, let me take you through this particular codebase.
So here, Udacity, this,
is the main branch where everybody,
all the developers or in our case all the trainers are pushing their code into.
What I did was I forked a branch out of it.
So I forked this branch out of the Udacity main branch,
and now I have my personal branch which is the fork.
What I did then is I created.
So I went to this Clone or download,
and I copied this,
and just the usual process of Git cloning,
and I would follow Git cloning.
I'm not going to run this for you,
but if I run this,
apologize for that, it's Git clone not Git cloning.
So I'm not going to run this command,
but this is how I would be able to fetch all the code that is in this particular fork.
The first time you fork,
your code base will be the same as the master code base.
So there is going to be no difference in the code.
But what you would do is,
you would clone the fork,
and then you start making changes to your fork.
What that would do is,
that would create differences between the branch that you
originally got the code from and now fork.
So let's say that I already have a few changes in my fork.
How do I see what the changes are?
I'm going to run Git status command,
and these are my changes.
You would see that
all the green files are the new files and everything in red is the modification.
So pretty much all of these is the difference.
These are my differences.
Just remember that you would not go ahead and
commit these dot or these files into the codebase,
you would only commit the data or the files that you,
for example, I would not go ahead and add this particular file into the code base.
These are not required.
The best way to ignore them or having them not show
active status is to add them to the.Gitignore file.
So you would add that to a hidden file called Gitignore,
and I would leave that as a challenge to you that you go ahead and try
to add any of these unusable files into your Gitignore.
So go ahead and try that,
and at the same time I would also encourage you to try to practice as many Git commands
as you can while you're working on your codebase.
So this is one very useful command,
and then what I would do is I would pick and choose which ever change I want to add.
This is what I do personally,
I would just go ahead and add them one by one and not everything together.
The way to do this is- so it says fatal parts spec did not match any file.
So this is complaining about it because there is
a space and it's not able to identify it.
But that's fine.
I'm going to show how you can add all the files or all the changes in one go.
I wouldn't recommend it but I've seen some people do it.
If you have seen or verified all the changes and you're good to go,
then just do Git add.,
and it adds everything to your commit.
How would you check this?
Is by doing Git status again.
So now, it gives you the list of
everything that's going to be pushed with this particular change.
So Git status leads to all these changes being pushed,
and I'm not going to push this, but I'm just showing it to
you for the sake of understanding this.
You can run Git reset to undo the change that you just did.
So which is known at that for the commit.
So now we're back to where we were before.
The next thing that I would like you to take attention
to is this very useful command called Git commit.
Now this is where your actual commit happens.
I would use minus m to add a comment for this commit.
Usually, if you have the specific commit,
I go into the detail of even adding
the Jira bug number or if I go as detailed as I want do.
Sometimes it's not possible to add a lot of comment,
but I would for right now I could just say clean up,
and I could add that.
But since I hadn't added it,
it didn't really commit into anything but I'm just trying
to show the commit message to you or the use of Git commit to you.
So minus m is for the commit message.
The last thing that you would do after that is Git push.
Now you would push to your fork.
Now, one thing to do before you push is to figure out what is your remote like,
and how do you check this is by running Git remote with minus V. So this
tells me that right now I have only one remote which is origin,
and that is the main branch which means that whatever I'm going to try to push right
now is going to go to the Udacity main branch and I do not want that.
What I want to do is I want to push it to my fork.
So what I will do is I would add another remote and call it upstream.
Technically, upstream should be the main branch and origin should be the fork because I'm
fetching from the origin and then pushing it to upstream later on.
So I'm going to remove this remote.
So I would run this.
So it's asking me for the name.
So I'm going to remove origin,
and this was successful.
So now, I do not have any remote and how do I check this is by wanting this.
So there was no remote anymore after this command was run.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to create
a remote and that I'm going to do from the fork.
So I have my fork,
and I'm going to go back to this,
and I would run Git clone,
and now I run this again.
So I just run Git clone and I cleared the screen so that I could show you what
happens after I have cloned it from the fork.
So when I type Git remote minus v now,
you see the user for this which means that now it's from my fork.
So this code base is from my fork.
So let me go ahead and quickly make
some changes on my local so that I can try to push that.
So now, we have the code-based fetched from my fork,
and I'm also going to create the upstream,
and since I want the main branch to be the upstream,
I copied that location,
and now I'm going to add another remote and I'm going to call it upstream,
and now I have origin and upstream.
So origin is my fork and upstream is the main branch.
So all the developers can have their own origin where they
keep making all the changes that they had been intending to make,
and the upstream is in our case,
the master where all their changes are going to be merged.
So for the sake of understanding this,
I've made a few changes.
The only change that I've made is add a print line.
So let's look at what it's going to look like.
So I have these changes and if I want to see what changes I've made,
I could just go ahead and diff it,
and that shows the exact change I have.
If I'm okay with the difference,
then I can go ahead and add this change and commit it like we had mentioned before.
Now, that was a very quick and short tutorial for Git.
Let's move on to the next part where this particular change that I have made,
for example, as a developer,
is going to trigger the Jenkins pipeline
and how the entire pipeline follows from there.